---
layout: session
title: Robust Decision Trees
host: Çiğdem Karademir
session_type: research
related_papers: s20250224
---

In this talk, we address a real-world problem in city logistics: the Two-Echelon Multi-Trip Vehicle Routing Problem with Satellite Synchronization (2E-MVRP-SS). The problem involves coordinating a fleet of light electric freight vehicles (LEFVs) operating at the street level with a fleet of vessels operating at the water level. The objective is to minimize total logistics costs while serving customer requests with time windows and transshipping goods between LEFVs and vessels at satellite locations. These satellites have limited capacity and no storage, necessitating precise synchronization of operations in both space and time.

To tackle this problem, we propose two models: a joint mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) model and a logic-based Benders decomposition (LBBD) model. The LBBD model demonstrates greater robustness for larger instances, significantly improving solution quality and computational efficiency, with an 18.7% reduction in total travel time. We also investigate the impact of cost allocations between two service providers and satellite locations on overall system performance. Furthermore, we evaluate various service design alternatives, such as single echelon systems using only trucks, only LEFVs, and two-echelon systems using only storage, and synchronization.
The key contribution of this work lies in the development of efficient models for solving the 2E-MVRP-SS, offering valuable insights into the trade-offs between different system configurations and operational parameters. This research is highly relevant to the fields of scheduling and optimization, providing practical solutions for advancing sustainable urban logistics.
